---
layout: default
title: v1.3.0 Migration Guide
parent: pages.release_notes
nav_order: 1
---

# v1.3.0 Migration Guide
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Overview

Hyperledger FireFly v1.3.0 is a feature release that includes changes around event streaming, contract listeners, define/publish APIs as well as a range of general fixes.

For the most part, upgrading from v1.2.x to v1.3.0 should be a seamless experience, but there are several important things to note about changes between the two versions, which are described in detail on this page.

## API definition/publication considerations

**As of FireFly v1.3.0 in multi-party namespaces, by default, contract interfaces, contracts APIs, and token pools have distinct steps in their creation flow and by default they are unpublished.**

These following described changes impact contract interfaces, contract APIs, and token pools. 

Previously, when creating one of the affected resources in a multi-party network, if successful, the resource would be automatically broadcasted to other namespaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this behaviour has changed, now when one of the resources is created there are 2 distinct states for the resource, *published* and *unpublished*. The default state for a resource (provided FireFly is not told otherwise) after creation is *unpublished*.

When a resource is *unpublished* it is not broadcasted to other namespaces in the multi-party network, and it is not pinned to the blockchain. In this state, it is possible to call the `DELETE` APIs to remove the resource (such as in the case where configuration needs to be changed) and reclaim the name that has been provided to it, so that it can be recreated.

When a resource is *published* it is broadcasted to other namespaces in the multi-party network, and it is pinned to the blockchain. In this state, it is no longer possible to call the `DELETE` APIs to remove the resource.

In FireFly v1.2.0 to create one of the affected resources and publish it to other parties, a `POST` call would be made to its respective API route and the broadcast would happen immediately. To achieve the same behaviour in FireFly v1.3.0, there are 2 options for all impacted resources, either providing a query parameter at creation to signal immediate publish, or a subsequent API call to publish the resources.

### Contract interfaces

Previously, to create a contract interface a `POST` call would be made to `/contracts/interfaces` and the interface would be broadcasted to all other namepsaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this same call can be made with the `publish=true` query parameter, or a subsequent API call can be made on an unpublished interface on `POST /contracts/interfaces/{name}/{version}/publish` specifying the name and version of the interface.

[For an exact view of the changes to contract interfaces, see PR #1279.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1279)

### Contract APIs

Previously, to create a contract API a `POST` call would be made to `/apis` and the API would be broadcasted to all other namepsaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this same call can be made with the `publish=true` query parameter, or a subsequent API call can be made on an unpublished API on `/apis/{apiName}/publish` specifying the name of the API.

[For an exact view of the changes to contract APIs, see PR #1322.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1322)

### Token pools

Previously, to create a token pool a `POST` call would be made to `/tokens/pools` and the token pool would be broadcasted to all other namepsaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this same call can be made with the `publish=true` query parameter, or a subsequent API call can be made on an unpublished token pool on `/tokens/pools/{nameOrId}/publish` specifying the name or ID of the token pool.

[For an exact view of the changes to token pools, see PR #1261.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1261)

## Event stream considerations

### Single event stream per namespace

In this release, the model for event streams in a multi-party network has fundamentally changed. Previously, there was a single event stream for each blockchain plugin, even if this plugin served multiple namespaces. In FireFly v1.3.0 there is now a single event stream per namespace in the network. 

When migrating from FireFly v1.2.X to v1.3.0, due to these changes, existing event streams will be rebuilt. This means that connectors will replay past events to FireFly, but FireFly will automatically de-duplicate them by design so this is a safe operation.

The migration to individual event streams promotes high-availability capability but is not itself a breaking change, however the ID format for event streams has changed. Event streams now follow the format `<plugin_topic_name>/<namespace_name>`. For example, an event stream for the default namespace with a plugin topic of 0 would now be: `0/default`.

Summarily, these changes _should not_ impact end-users of FireFly, but they're noted here as they are significant architectural changes to the relationships between namespaces, plugins, and connectors.

[For an exact view of the changes, see PR #1388.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1388)

## Configuration considerations

### Deprecated configuration

In FireFly v1.3.0 deprecated configuration options for the `blockchain`, `database`, `dataexchange`, `sharedstorage` and `tokens` plugins have been removed, and can no longer be provided.

[For an exact view of the changes, see PR #1289](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1289).

## Token pool considerations

### Activity indicator changes

Token pools have a status, when creating a token pool previously, it would go into a pending state immediately following creation, and then into a confirmed state when it has been confirmed on the chain. This behaviour is still consistent in FireFly v1.3.0, but the representation of the data has changed.

Previously, token pools had a `state` field with an enumerated value which was either `pending`, or `confirmed`, this has been replaced with an `active` boolean field, where `true` indicates the token pool has been committed onto chain, and `false` indicated the transaction has not yet been confirmed.

[For an exact view of the changes, see PR #1305](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1305).

## FabConnect event considerations 

### FabConnect Protocol ID format changes

Prior to FireFly v1.3.0, when the FabConnect client indexed events submitted by the Fabric SDK, FireFly would deduplicate events into a single event because the protocol ID of the events compiled into a single block would evaluate to be the same. In this release, we have changed the format of the calculated protocol ID so that is unique across events even if they are located within the same block. Crucially, **the new format includes the transaction hash, so events are no longer alphanumerically sortable.**

[For an exact view of the changes, see PR #1345](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1345).

## Local development considerations

### Go version upgrade

FireFly v1.3.0 now uses Go 1.21 across all modules. 